---
layout: post
title:  "Katherine Johnson"
date:   2018-02-08
excerpt: "She was shown in Hidden Figures, and faced discrimination as well."
image: "/images/johnson.jpg"
---

Katherine Johnson was born in White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia to working class parents, the father a tradesman, and the mother a teacher. She was the subject of _Hidden Figures_, a book (and later, movie) that showed her problems with discrimination while working at NASA as a human computer.

Immediately, Johnson displayed an exceptional talent for mathematics but did not have the opportunity to enjoy public schooling after the eighth grade. However, her parents did not falter and payed for her to attend high school in Institute, West Virginia and continue her education. 

Impressively, Johnson graduated high school and attend a black college, West Virginia State. 
Thanks to the mentoring and the educational opportunities provided by the school, Johnson was able to graduate college with degrees in mathematics and French at the age of 18. 

However, due to bigotry and discrimination, Katherine Johnson was only able to find jobs as teachers for over a decade, until she discovered the predecessor of NASA was hiring white or colored mathematicians in 1952. 
During this period, electronic computers did not have the power to make calculations faster than a person. 
As a result, Johnson and her team served as computers where they calculated every aspect of NASA’s technology and help ensure success. 

Until 1958, Johnson was absolutely crucial for NASA’s success, making incredibly complex computations for their rocketry, ensuring

This is just another example of how discrimination has impeded our progress; if Katherine Johnson had been respescted, NASA would have been able to progress due to her work. It is important to not discriminate no matter what, but especially when those who you are discriminating against may help progress the human condition. 

