---
layout: post
title:  "Alice Ball"
date:   2018-02-03
excerpt: "One of the first scientists who were female. She made advances but still faced discrimination"
image: "/images/ball.png"
---

Alice Ball was a black woman, born in Seattle in 1892. Due to her fading grandfather’s health, Ball and her family moved to Hawaii in 1903 and lived there until his death in 1905.

Being the daughter of a wealthy lawyer, Ball was given the privilege to attend and graduate from the University of Washington and graduate with two degrees, pharmaceutical chemistry and pharmacy. 

Already among the highest percentage of achieving colored people, Ball went on to the University of Hawaii to gain her master’s in chemistry. This achievement set her place in the history books, being the first women and person of color to graduate with a degree in chemistry.

Even after gaining a position as a symbol of progress, Ball continued in her studies by researching the effect of chaulmooga oil on the victims of leprosy. 

Through her studies, Ball discovered a new, more treatment to the disease, helping thousands.
However, Ball passed at the age of 24 due to the stress of the research and inhaling of chlorine gas.

Essentially, Ball shows that African Americans can contribute a ton to science and other research. Overall, there is no reason for discrimination to occur, and when it does, we can miss out on important discoveries.

If Alice Ball had accepted the subordinate position that she was expected to, and did not persue her career, we would not have had treatments for leprosy, and as a result, would have been worse off. She shows us that we need to have a culturally neutral (i.e. non-discriminative) scientific culture in order to progress research the best.


